DECOLONIZE MY AUDITION BOOK was built using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Express, Node, Mongo, and MongoDB Atlas. Deployed on Heroku, it can be found at http://decolonize-my-audition-book.herokuapp.com. This full stack application was designed for musical theater actors who are Black, Indigenous, and people of color. 

A classic must-have for MT performers is "a book," or a collection of songs –– some abbreviated into 16-bar and 32-bar cuts –– that is brought with them to every single audition. The curation of one's book is an art form: it must contain a wide variety of different pieces, but when any of them could be called upon at any given moment, it's imperative that each can be sung comfortably by the singer at the drop of a hat. 

The musical theater world is a predominantly white one. Indeed, for the 2016-2017 Broadway and Off Broadway season, 87% of the productions' authors where white, and that number only decreased to 80% the following season. To combat the overwhelmingly saturated pool of white writers, and inspired by a post by Yvonne Moss in the Facebook group Theater Folx of Color in which she asked for composer/lyricist recommendations in an effort to "decolonize her audition book," I set out to create a crowd-sourced database of musical theater writers of color. 

It's my dream that when singers are compiling their books, or considering what to sing for a cabaret, they can log onto a library and discover artists they'd never heard of before, whose writing might speak to them more deeply than that of the usual (white) suspects. And I look forward to a time in which all of these names are as known as "Rodgers" and "Hammerstein."

